# Harvey Holt insisted upon knowing where he was.

In *The Drifters* by James Michener, one of the characters, Harvey Holt, is a
contractor who travels the world. Wherever he goes, he posts a sign with the
latitude and longitude of where he is, and the other cities that you'd fly over
if you flew along the same latitude and the same longitude around the world.

[harveyholt@botsin.space](https://botsin.space/@harveyholt) is a bot on the
Mastodon network that toots once a day about a random location and the cities
along the same latitude and longitude in the same way that Harvey Holt does in
the book. He's written in Rust.

## Samples from the book

The book was published in 1971, so some of the place names are outdated.

> You are now in Kabul, Afghanistan
> 34°30'N 69°13'E
>
> If you fly along this latitude in an easterly direction, you will look down
> on Malakand, Siam, Suchow, Hiroshima, Santa Barbara, Prescott, Little Rock,
> Wilmington, NC, Fez, Limassol Homs, Herat, Kabul.
>
> If you fly along this longitude starting north, you will look down on
> Tashkent, Petropavlovsk, North Pole, Medicine Hat, Great Falls, Tuscon,
> Guaymas, South Pole, Kerguélen Island, Bhuj, Kabul.

> You are now in Pamplona, Spain
> 42°48'N 1°37'W
>
> If you fly along this latitude in an easterly direction, you will look down
> on Orvieto, Sofia, Tashkent, Sappooro, Milwaukee, Detroit, Santiago de
> Compostela, Vitoria, Pamplona.
>
> If you fly along this longitude starting north, you will look down on
> Cherbourg, Leeds, Shetlands, North Pole, Wrangel, Suva, Gisbourne, South
> Pole, Kumasi, Ouagadougou, Tlemcen, Calatayud, Pamplona.

## Samples generated by the bot

> You are now in Biskra, Biskra, Algeria
> 34°51'N 5°43'E
>
> If you fly along this latitude in an easterly direction, you will look down
> on Kabul, Saidu, Luoyang, Zhengzhou, Busan, Hiroshima, Osaka, Kyoto, Nagoya,
> Biskra.
>
> If you fly along this longitude starting north, you will look down on Setif,
> Marseille, Grenoble, Geneva, Liege, Eindhoven, North Pole, South Pole, Warri,
> Benin City, Ikare, Biskra.

> You are now in Hachinohe, Aomori, Japan
> 40°30'N 141°32'E
>
> If you fly along this latitude in an easterly direction, you will look down
> on Pittsburgh, New York, Madrid, Naples, Bursa, Baku, Baotou, Hohhot, Datong,
> Hachinohe.
>
> If you fly along this longitude starting north, you will look down on
> Tomakomai, Sapporo, North Pole, Fortaleza, Baturite, Russas, Paulo Afonso,
> Alagoinhas, Salvador, South Pole, Morioka, Hachinohe.

## Data

[simplemaps World Cities Database](http://simplemaps.com/data/world-cities)
freely available MIT licensed dataset, last updated in 2015.

## Future enhancements

* If someone toots a location at harveyholt, he should respond with the text
  for that location.
* Instead of always taking the top 10 cities by population, perhaps take more
  and randomly sample from them.
* Or perhaps try to get an even distribution around the globe, so that, for
  example, all the cities aren't in one hemisphere. May not always be possible!
